The second trimester begins at
week 14 and ends at week 26.
At 14 weeks, the immune system
continues to develop
and external genitalia can be seen.
At 16 weeks, respiration develops.
At 18 weeks, the ears stick out of the head
and by 20 weeks, downy hair covers the body.
At 23 weeks, the fetus can respond to sounds.
At 24 weeks, the fetus is able to
suck and hear sounds.
Eyebrows and eyelashes can be seen.
The third trimester begins at
26 weeks and ends with labor.
At 27 weeks, the lungs begin to
simulate breathing movements.
At 28 weeks, the fused eyelids open,
and the eyes can sense light.
The ability to smell begins.
The fetus can suck and swallow.
At 32 weeks, the skin is red and crinkled.
Fat starts to be deposited to round out the fetus.
At 34 weeks, if it hasn’t already,
the fetus begins the descent into the
pelvis to prepare for delivery.
At 35 weeks, the fingernails reach the end of the fingertips.
At 36 weeks, more body fat has formed
so the body is rounder and less wrinkly.
At 37 weeks, the lungs are considered mature,
and the baby is not considered premature if delivered.
At 40 weeks, the normal gestation period ends.